README.md, before:

# Garak Report Repository

> **⚠️ Version Notice:** This project is currently in version 0.x and is subject to breaking changes without notice. When we reach v1.0, we will follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) and will not introduce breaking changes without a major version bump.

A comprehensive repository and analysis tool for storing, organizing, and analyzing [Garak](https://github.com/NVIDIA/garak) security testing reports. This application serves as both a storage repository for your Garak runs and an advanced dashboard for drilling down into specific attempts and responses to understand exact failures and identify false positives.

## Features

- **Report Repository**: Store and organize your Garak security testing reports in a centralized location
- **Web-based Upload**: Upload new reports directly through the web interface
- **Folder Organization**: Organize reports in folders with hierarchical browsing
- **Advanced Analytics**: View comprehensive statistics including vulnerability rates, test categories, and overall security posture
- **Drill-down Analysis**: Examine individual test attempts and responses to understand specific failures
- **False Positive Detection**: Analyze detector results and responses to identify potential false positives
- **🔧 Configurable Report Editing**: Toggle vulnerability scores to mark false positives/negatives (can be disabled for read-only environments)
- **Search & Filter**: Search through test categories and filter attempts by vulnerability status
- **Detailed Response Analysis**: View full prompts, responses, and detector scores for each attempt
- **🔐 OIDC Authentication**: Secure access with OpenID Connect integration supporting automated service discovery for various providers (Okta, Google, Azure AD, Auth0, Keycloak, AWS Cognito, and more)
- **🔑 Shared Secret Authentication**: Machine-to-machine API authentication using configurable shared secrets for automated services and CI/CD pipelines

## Screenshots

### Report Selection Interface
The main interface allows you to browse and select from your stored Garak reports, with folder organization and search capabilities.

![Report Selection Interface](screenshots/report-selection.png)

### Detailed Analysis Dashboard
Once you select a report, you can view comprehensive statistics and drill down into specific vulnerability categories to examine individual attempts and responses.

![Analysis Dashboard](screenshots/analysis-dashboard.png)

### Attempts View
View the attempts and responses that happened during the testing.  Filter by vulnerability status and determine if there are any false positives.

![Attempts View](screenshots/attempts.png)


## Getting Started

### Running with Docker (Recommended)

The easiest way to get started is using the pre-built Docker image:

1. **Pull the latest image:**
   ```bash
   docker pull nerdyhick/garak-repo:latest
   ```

2. **Run the container:**
   ```bash
   docker run -p 3000:3000 -e "OIDC_ENABLED=false" -v /path/to/your/reports:/app/data nerdyhick/garak-repo:latest
   ```

   Replace `/path/to/your/reports` with the actual path to your Garak report files.
   In production, it is strongly recommended to configure an OIDC provider via your IDP.

   **Note:** The container defaults to using `/app/data` as the report directory (mapped from `REPORT_DIR=./data`).  You can change this by adding `-e REPORT_DIR=<some-directory-in-the-container>`

3. **Run in detached mode (background):**
   ```bash
   docker run -d -p 3000:3000 \
     -v /path/to/your/reports:/app/data \
     -e "OIDC_ENABLED=false" \
     --name garak-repo \
     nerdyhick/garak-repo:latest
   ```

4. **Using a specific version:**
   ```bash
   docker run -p 3000:3000 \
     -v /path/to/your/reports:/app/data \
     -e "OIDC_ENABLED=false" \
     nerdyhick/garak-repo:0.0.1
   ```

5. **Stop the container:**
   ```bash
   docker stop garak-repo
   ```

6. **View container logs:**
   ```bash
   docker logs garak-repo
   ```

The Docker container will:
- Serve the application on port 3000
- Mount your report directory to `/app/data` inside the container
- Automatically detect and serve your Garak report files
- Run in standalone mode for optimal performance

### Running Locally (Development)

For development or if you prefer to run the application locally:

1. **Prerequisites:**
   - Node.js 18 or later
   - npm or yarn

2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Environment Setup:**
   
   Copy the example environment file:
   ```bash
   cp example.env .env
   ```

   Configure the environment variables in your `.env` file. The application has smart defaults to make getting started easier:

   **Quick Start (No Authentication):**
   ```bash
   # Minimal configuration for local development without authentication
   OIDC_ENABLED=false
   # That's it! REPORT_DIR, NEXTAUTH_URL, and NEXTAUTH_SECRET will auto-default
   ```

   **Full Configuration:**
   ```bash
   # Directory where Garak report files are stored
   # Default: ./data (auto-created if OIDC_ENABLED=false)
   REPORT_DIR=./data
   
   # Enable/disable OIDC authentication
   # Set to 'false' for no authentication, 'true' for OIDC
   OIDC_ENABLED=true

   # NextAuth Configuration
   # REQUIRED when OIDC_ENABLED=true (app will exit with error if missing)
   # OPTIONAL when OIDC_ENABLED=false (auto-defaults applied)
   NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
   NEXTAUTH_SECRET=your-secret-key-here
   
   # OIDC Provider Configuration
   # REQUIRED when OIDC_ENABLED=true (app will exit with error if missing)
   OIDC_ISSUER=https://your-oidc-provider.com
   OIDC_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id
   OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret
   OIDC_PROVIDER_NAME=Your Provider Name
   
   # Shared Secret Authentication (Optional - for machine-to-machine API access)
   SHARED_SECRET=your-shared-secret-here
   ```

   **Environment Variable Defaults:**
   - `REPORT_DIR`: Defaults to `./data` if not set
   - `NEXTAUTH_URL`: Defaults to `http://localhost:3000` when `OIDC_ENABLED=false`
   - `NEXTAUTH_SECRET`: Auto-generated (secure random) when `OIDC_ENABLED=false`
   
   **Path Handling:**
   - **Relative paths** (like `./data`, `../reports`) are resolved from the project root
   - **Absolute paths** (starting with `/`) are used as-is
   - All paths are validated for security
   
   **OIDC Configuration:**
   - See [OIDC_SETUP.md](OIDC_SETUP.md) for detailed configuration instructions
   - Supports automated service discovery for various providers
   - When `OIDC_ENABLED=true`, the application validates all required variables on startup
   - Missing required variables will cause the app to exit with a clear error message

   **⚠️ Important Notes:**
   - When changing `OIDC_ENABLED`, you must restart the development server
   - Next.js does not automatically reload environment variables on hot reload
   - If OIDC variables are missing when `OIDC_ENABLED=true`, the app will not start

4. **Run the development server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. **Open your browser:**
   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to see the application.

6. **Build for production:**
   ```bash
   npm run build
   npm start
   ```

## Environment Variables

The following environment variables can be configured:

### Report Storage

#### `REPORT_DIR` (Optional)
- **Description**: Directory where Garak report files are stored
- **Default**: `./data`
- **Examples**: 
  - `REPORT_DIR=./data` (relative to project root)
  - `REPORT_DIR=/var/log/garak/reports` (absolute path)
- **Path handling**: 
  - Relative paths are resolved from the project root
  - Absolute paths (starting with `/`) are used as-is

#### `REPORT_READONLY` (Optional)
- **Description**: Controls whether users can edit vulnerability scores in reports
- **Default**: `false`
- **Values**: 
  - `true`: Reports are read-only, vulnerability scores cannot be modified
  - `false`: Users can toggle vulnerability scores to mark false positives/negatives
- **Use cases**: 
  - Set to `true` for production environments where report integrity must be preserved
  - Set to `false` for analysis environments where analysts need to mark false positives

### OIDC Authentication (Optional)

#### Enable/Disable Authentication
- **`OIDC_ENABLED`**: Turns authentication on or off
  - `true`: Requires OIDC authentication (default)
  - `false`: Disables authentication entirely

#### Required Variables (when OIDC_ENABLED=true)
**OIDC Provider Configuration:**
- **`OIDC_ISSUER`**: OIDC provider issuer URL (e.g., `https://your-provider.com`)
- **`OIDC_CLIENT_ID`**: OAuth client ID from your provider
- **`OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET`**: OAuth client secret from your provider

**NextAuth Configuration:**
- **`NEXTAUTH_URL`**: Application URL (e.g., `http://localhost:3000`)
  - Auto-defaults to `http://localhost:3000` when `OIDC_ENABLED=false`
- **`NEXTAUTH_SECRET`**: Secret for JWT signing (generate a strong random string)
  - Auto-generated (secure random) when `OIDC_ENABLED=false`

**Note**: When `OIDC_ENABLED=true`, all five variables above are required. If any are missing, the application will exit with a clear error message listing the missing variables.

#### Optional Variables for OIDC
- **`OIDC_PROVIDER_NAME`**: Display name for the provider (default: "OIDC Provider")
- **`OIDC_SCOPES`**: Requested scopes (default: `openid,profile,email`)
- **`OIDC_USE_PKCE`**: Enable PKCE for security (default: `true`)
- **`OIDC_MAX_AGE`**: Session max age in seconds (default: `3600`)
- **`OIDC_DEBUG`**: Enable debug logging for troubleshooting (default: `false`)

### Shared Secret Authentication (Optional)

#### `SHARED_SECRET` (Optional)
- **Description**: Shared secret for machine-to-machine API authentication
- **Default**: Not set (authentication disabled)
- **Usage**: When set, enables API access using shared secret authentication
- **Authentication Method**: `X-API-Key: <shared-secret>` (case-insensitive header name)
- **Fallback**: If not set or empty, falls back to OIDC authentication or no authentication (depending on `OIDC_ENABLED`)

For detailed OIDC configuration instructions and provider-specific examples, see [OIDC_SETUP.md](OIDC_SETUP.md).

## Usage

### Storing Reports

1. **Upload via Web Interface**: Use the upload button to add new Garak report files (`.jsonl` format) directly through the web interface
2. **File System**: Place your Garak report files in the directory specified by `REPORT_DIR` - the application will automatically detect and list them
3. **Folder Organization**: Organize reports in subdirectories for better management of multiple test runs

### Analyzing Reports

1. **Browse Reports**: The dashboard automatically detects and lists all available reports with metadata including run ID, model name, and test statistics
2. **Select a Report**: Click on any report to view comprehensive analysis including:
   - Overall vulnerability statistics and test category breakdown
   - Individual test category performance with vulnerability rates
   - DEFCON grades and Z-scores for each category

### Drill-down Analysis

The key benefit of this repository is the ability to drill down into specific attempts and responses:

1. **Category Analysis**: Click on any test category to view detailed attempt-level data
2. **Filter Attempts**: Filter attempts by vulnerability status (All, Vulnerable, Safe) to focus on specific issues
3. **Examine Individual Attempts**: View complete details for each attempt including:
   - Full prompt text and test goals
   - All model responses with vulnerability scoring
   - Detector results with individual scores for each response
   - Response analysis showing which specific responses triggered vulnerabilities

4. **Identify False Positives**: By examining the full context of prompts and responses, you can:
   - Understand why certain responses were flagged as vulnerable
   - Identify cases where detectors may have produced false positives
   - Analyze the quality and appropriateness of model responses
   - Make informed decisions about security posture

This detailed analysis capability helps you understand not just that vulnerabilities were found, but exactly what went wrong and whether the detections are accurate.

### API Usage with Shared Secret Authentication

When `SHARED_SECRET` is configured, you can access the API endpoints programmatically for machine-to-machine communication:

#### Uploading Reports via API

```bash
# Using X-API-Key header (case-insensitive)
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/upload-report \
  -H "X-API-Key: your-shared-secret-here" \
  -F "file=@your-report.jsonl"

# Alternative case variations (all work the same)
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/upload-report \
  -H "x-api-key: your-shared-secret-here" \
  -F "file=@your-report.jsonl"

curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/upload-report \
  -H "X-Api-Key: your-shared-secret-here" \
  -F "file=@your-report.jsonl"
```

#### Listing Reports via API

```bash
# Get list of all reports
curl -H "X-API-Key: your-shared-secret-here" \
  http://localhost:3000/api/reports

# Get specific report content
curl -H "X-API-Key: your-shared-secret-here" \
  "http://localhost:3000/api/garak-report?filename=your-report.jsonl"
```

#### Available API Endpoints

- `POST /api/upload-report` - Upload new Garak report files
- `GET /api/reports` - List all available reports
- `GET /api/garak-report` - Get specific report content
- `GET /api/garak-report-metadata` - Get report metadata
- `GET /api/garak-report-attempts` - Get report attempts data
- `GET /api/folders` - List folder structure

**Note**: All API endpoints support shared secret authentication when `SHARED_SECRET` is configured. The `X-API-Key` header name is case-insensitive (e.g., `X-API-Key`, `x-api-key`, `X-Api-Key` all work). If shared secret authentication is not configured, the API will fall back to OIDC authentication or no authentication (depending on your `OIDC_ENABLED` setting).

## Troubleshooting

### Application Won't Start

#### Error: "OIDC is enabled but required environment variables are missing"

**Cause**: You have `OIDC_ENABLED=true` but some required variables are not set.

**Solution**: The error message will list which variables are missing. You need to either:

1. **Set all required variables** (when using OIDC):
   ```bash
   OIDC_ENABLED=true
   OIDC_ISSUER=https://your-provider.com
   OIDC_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id
   OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret
   NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
   NEXTAUTH_SECRET=your-secret-key
   ```

2. **Disable OIDC** (for local development without authentication):
   ```bash
   OIDC_ENABLED=false
   ```

#### Report Directory Error

**Error**: "Report directory does not exist"

**Cause**: The `REPORT_DIR` path doesn't exist or isn't accessible.

**Solution**:
```bash
# Create the directory
mkdir -p ./data

# Or specify an existing directory in .env
REPORT_DIR=/path/to/existing/directory
```

**Note**: If `REPORT_DIR` is not set, it defaults to `./data` and will be created automatically.

### Authentication Issues

#### Too Many Redirects

**Cause**: This usually happens when OIDC is enabled but environment variables are incomplete or incorrect.

**Solution**: 
1. Check that all required OIDC variables are set correctly
2. Verify your OIDC provider configuration (client ID, secret, redirect URIs)
3. Ensure `NEXTAUTH_URL` matches your application's URL
4. For troubleshooting, try setting `OIDC_DEBUG=true` to see detailed logs
5. As a last resort, temporarily disable OIDC: `OIDC_ENABLED=false`

#### Session/Cookie Issues

**Problem**: Can't stay logged in or session expires immediately.

**Solution**:
1. Ensure `NEXTAUTH_SECRET` is set to a strong, random value (at least 32 characters)
2. Verify `NEXTAUTH_URL` matches the URL you're accessing the app from
3. In production, ensure you're using HTTPS
4. Check that cookies are enabled in your browser

### Docker Issues

#### Port Already in Use

**Error**: "Port 3000 is already in use"

**Solution**:
```bash
# Stop the existing container
docker stop garak-repo

# Or use a different port
docker run -p 8080:3000 ...
```

#### Volume Mount Issues

**Error**: "Permission denied" when mounting report directory

**Solution**:
```bash
# Ensure the host directory has proper permissions
chmod 755 /path/to/reports

# Or run with appropriate user permissions
docker run --user $(id -u):$(id -g) ...
```

### Development Server Issues

#### Changes Not Reflecting

**Problem**: Code or environment variable changes don't take effect.

**Solution**:
1. **Environment variables**: Always restart the dev server after changing `.env`
   ```bash
   # Stop the server (Ctrl+C) then restart
   npm run dev
   ```

2. **Code changes**: Clear Next.js cache if hot reload isn't working:
   ```bash
   rm -rf .next
   npm run dev
   ```

#### Build Errors After Updates

**Problem**: Errors after pulling new code or updating dependencies.

**Solution**:
```bash
# Clean install
rm -rf node_modules .next
npm install
npm run dev
```

### Getting Help

If you continue to experience issues:

1. **Check the logs**: Look for error messages in the console output
2. **Verify configuration**: Compare your `.env` with `example.env`
3. **Enable debug mode**: Set `OIDC_DEBUG=true` for OIDC issues
4. **Check documentation**: See [OIDC_SETUP.md](OIDC_SETUP.md) for detailed OIDC configuration
5. **Report issues**: Open an issue on GitHub with:
   - Error messages (sanitize sensitive data)
   - Your configuration (without secrets)
   - Steps to reproduce

Commit message:

REPORT_READONLY now prevents report upload

README.md, after:

# Garak Report Repository

> **⚠️ Version Notice:** This project is currently in version 0.x and is subject to breaking changes without notice. When we reach v1.0, we will follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) and will not introduce breaking changes without a major version bump.

A comprehensive repository and analysis tool for storing, organizing, and analyzing [Garak](https://github.com/NVIDIA/garak) security testing reports. This application serves as both a storage repository for your Garak runs and an advanced dashboard for drilling down into specific attempts and responses to understand exact failures and identify false positives.

## Features

- **Report Repository**: Store and organize your Garak security testing reports in a centralized location
- **Web-based Upload**: Upload new reports directly through the web interface
- **Folder Organization**: Organize reports in folders with hierarchical browsing
- **Advanced Analytics**: View comprehensive statistics including vulnerability rates, test categories, and overall security posture
- **Drill-down Analysis**: Examine individual test attempts and responses to understand specific failures
- **False Positive Detection**: Analyze detector results and responses to identify potential false positives
- **🔧 Configurable Report Editing**: Toggle vulnerability scores to mark false positives/negatives (can be disabled for read-only environments)
- **Search & Filter**: Search through test categories and filter attempts by vulnerability status
- **Detailed Response Analysis**: View full prompts, responses, and detector scores for each attempt
- **🔐 OIDC Authentication**: Secure access with OpenID Connect integration supporting automated service discovery for various providers (Okta, Google, Azure AD, Auth0, Keycloak, AWS Cognito, and more)
- **🔑 Shared Secret Authentication**: Machine-to-machine API authentication using configurable shared secrets for automated services and CI/CD pipelines

## Screenshots

### Report Selection Interface
The main interface allows you to browse and select from your stored Garak reports, with folder organization and search capabilities.

![Report Selection Interface](screenshots/report-selection.png)

### Detailed Analysis Dashboard
Once you select a report, you can view comprehensive statistics and drill down into specific vulnerability categories to examine individual attempts and responses.

![Analysis Dashboard](screenshots/analysis-dashboard.png)

### Attempts View
View the attempts and responses that happened during the testing.  Filter by vulnerability status and determine if there are any false positives.

![Attempts View](screenshots/attempts.png)


## Getting Started

### Running with Docker (Recommended)

The easiest way to get started is using the pre-built Docker image:

1. **Pull the latest image:**
   ```bash
   docker pull nerdyhick/garak-repo:latest
   ```

2. **Run the container:**
   ```bash
   docker run -p 3000:3000 -e "OIDC_ENABLED=false" -v /path/to/your/reports:/app/data nerdyhick/garak-repo:latest
   ```

   Replace `/path/to/your/reports` with the actual path to your Garak report files.
   In production, it is strongly recommended to configure an OIDC provider via your IDP.

   **Note:** The container defaults to using `/app/data` as the report directory (mapped from `REPORT_DIR=./data`).  You can change this by adding `-e REPORT_DIR=<some-directory-in-the-container>`

3. **Run in detached mode (background):**
   ```bash
   docker run -d -p 3000:3000 \
     -v /path/to/your/reports:/app/data \
     -e "OIDC_ENABLED=false" \
     --name garak-repo \
     nerdyhick/garak-repo:latest
   ```

4. **Using a specific version:**
   ```bash
   docker run -p 3000:3000 \
     -v /path/to/your/reports:/app/data \
     -e "OIDC_ENABLED=false" \
     nerdyhick/garak-repo:0.0.1
   ```

5. **Stop the container:**
   ```bash
   docker stop garak-repo
   ```

6. **View container logs:**
   ```bash
   docker logs garak-repo
   ```

The Docker container will:
- Serve the application on port 3000
- Mount your report directory to `/app/data` inside the container
- Automatically detect and serve your Garak report files
- Run in standalone mode for optimal performance

### Running Locally (Development)

For development or if you prefer to run the application locally:

1. **Prerequisites:**
   - Node.js 18 or later
   - npm or yarn

2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Environment Setup:**
   
   Copy the example environment file:
   ```bash
   cp example.env .env
   ```

   Configure the environment variables in your `.env` file. The application has smart defaults to make getting started easier:

   **Quick Start (No Authentication):**
   ```bash
   # Minimal configuration for local development without authentication
   OIDC_ENABLED=false
   # That's it! REPORT_DIR, NEXTAUTH_URL, and NEXTAUTH_SECRET will auto-default
   ```

   **Full Configuration:**
   ```bash
   # Directory where Garak report files are stored
   # Default: ./data (auto-created if OIDC_ENABLED=false)
   REPORT_DIR=./data
   
   # Enable/disable OIDC authentication
   # Set to 'false' for no authentication, 'true' for OIDC
   OIDC_ENABLED=true

   # NextAuth Configuration
   # REQUIRED when OIDC_ENABLED=true (app will exit with error if missing)
   # OPTIONAL when OIDC_ENABLED=false (auto-defaults applied)
   NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
   NEXTAUTH_SECRET=your-secret-key-here
   
   # OIDC Provider Configuration
   # REQUIRED when OIDC_ENABLED=true (app will exit with error if missing)
   OIDC_ISSUER=https://your-oidc-provider.com
   OIDC_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id
   OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret
   OIDC_PROVIDER_NAME=Your Provider Name
   
   # Shared Secret Authentication (Optional - for machine-to-machine API access)
   SHARED_SECRET=your-shared-secret-here
   ```

   **Environment Variable Defaults:**
   - `REPORT_DIR`: Defaults to `./data` if not set
   - `NEXTAUTH_URL`: Defaults to `http://localhost:3000` when `OIDC_ENABLED=false`
   - `NEXTAUTH_SECRET`: Auto-generated (secure random) when `OIDC_ENABLED=false`
   
   **Path Handling:**
   - **Relative paths** (like `./data`, `../reports`) are resolved from the project root
   - **Absolute paths** (starting with `/`) are used as-is
   - All paths are validated for security
   
   **OIDC Configuration:**
   - See [OIDC_SETUP.md](OIDC_SETUP.md) for detailed configuration instructions
   - Supports automated service discovery for various providers
   - When `OIDC_ENABLED=true`, the application validates all required variables on startup
   - Missing required variables will cause the app to exit with a clear error message

   **⚠️ Important Notes:**
   - When changing `OIDC_ENABLED`, you must restart the development server
   - Next.js does not automatically reload environment variables on hot reload
   - If OIDC variables are missing when `OIDC_ENABLED=true`, the app will not start

4. **Run the development server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. **Open your browser:**
   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to see the application.

6. **Build for production:**
   ```bash
   npm run build
   npm start
   ```

## Environment Variables

The following environment variables can be configured:

### Report Storage

#### `REPORT_DIR` (Optional)
- **Description**: Directory where Garak report files are stored
- **Default**: `./data`
- **Examples**: 
  - `REPORT_DIR=./data` (relative to project root)
  - `REPORT_DIR=/var/log/garak/reports` (absolute path)
- **Path handling**: 
  - Relative paths are resolved from the project root
  - Absolute paths (starting with `/`) are used as-is

#### `REPORT_READONLY` (Optional)
- **Description**: Controls whether the repository is in read-only mode
- **Default**: `false`
- **Values**: 
  - `true`: Read-only mode - disables all state-changing operations (report uploads, vulnerability score editing, upload UI hidden). To add reports in this mode, manually copy `.jsonl` files to the `REPORT_DIR` directory on the filesystem.
  - `false`: Full access mode - users can upload reports and edit vulnerability scores through the web interface
- **Use cases**: 
  - Set to `true` for production environments where report integrity must be preserved
  - Set to `false` for analysis environments where analysts need to mark false positives

### OIDC Authentication (Optional)

#### Enable/Disable Authentication
- **`OIDC_ENABLED`**: Turns authentication on or off
  - `true`: Requires OIDC authentication (default)
  - `false`: Disables authentication entirely

#### Required Variables (when OIDC_ENABLED=true)
**OIDC Provider Configuration:**
- **`OIDC_ISSUER`**: OIDC provider issuer URL (e.g., `https://your-provider.com`)
- **`OIDC_CLIENT_ID`**: OAuth client ID from your provider
- **`OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET`**: OAuth client secret from your provider

**NextAuth Configuration:**
- **`NEXTAUTH_URL`**: Application URL (e.g., `http://localhost:3000`)
  - Auto-defaults to `http://localhost:3000` when `OIDC_ENABLED=false`
- **`NEXTAUTH_SECRET`**: Secret for JWT signing (generate a strong random string)
  - Auto-generated (secure random) when `OIDC_ENABLED=false`

**Note**: When `OIDC_ENABLED=true`, all five variables above are required. If any are missing, the application will exit with a clear error message listing the missing variables.

#### Optional Variables for OIDC
- **`OIDC_PROVIDER_NAME`**: Display name for the provider (default: "OIDC Provider")
- **`OIDC_SCOPES`**: Requested scopes (default: `openid,profile,email`)
- **`OIDC_USE_PKCE`**: Enable PKCE for security (default: `true`)
- **`OIDC_MAX_AGE`**: Session max age in seconds (default: `3600`)
- **`OIDC_DEBUG`**: Enable debug logging for troubleshooting (default: `false`)

### Shared Secret Authentication (Optional)

#### `SHARED_SECRET` (Optional)
- **Description**: Shared secret for machine-to-machine API authentication
- **Default**: Not set (authentication disabled)
- **Usage**: When set, enables API access using shared secret authentication
- **Authentication Method**: `X-API-Key: <shared-secret>` (case-insensitive header name)
- **Fallback**: If not set or empty, falls back to OIDC authentication or no authentication (depending on `OIDC_ENABLED`)

For detailed OIDC configuration instructions and provider-specific examples, see [OIDC_SETUP.md](OIDC_SETUP.md).

## Usage

### Storing Reports

1. **Upload via Web Interface**: Use the upload button to add new Garak report files (`.jsonl` format) directly through the web interface
2. **File System**: Place your Garak report files in the directory specified by `REPORT_DIR` - the application will automatically detect and list them
3. **Folder Organization**: Organize reports in subdirectories for better management of multiple test runs

### Analyzing Reports

1. **Browse Reports**: The dashboard automatically detects and lists all available reports with metadata including run ID, model name, and test statistics
2. **Select a Report**: Click on any report to view comprehensive analysis including:
   - Overall vulnerability statistics and test category breakdown
   - Individual test category performance with vulnerability rates
   - DEFCON grades and Z-scores for each category

### Drill-down Analysis

The key benefit of this repository is the ability to drill down into specific attempts and responses:

1. **Category Analysis**: Click on any test category to view detailed attempt-level data
2. **Filter Attempts**: Filter attempts by vulnerability status (All, Vulnerable, Safe) to focus on specific issues
3. **Examine Individual Attempts**: View complete details for each attempt including:
   - Full prompt text and test goals
   - All model responses with vulnerability scoring
   - Detector results with individual scores for each response
   - Response analysis showing which specific responses triggered vulnerabilities

4. **Identify False Positives**: By examining the full context of prompts and responses, you can:
   - Understand why certain responses were flagged as vulnerable
   - Identify cases where detectors may have produced false positives
   - Analyze the quality and appropriateness of model responses
   - Make informed decisions about security posture

This detailed analysis capability helps you understand not just that vulnerabilities were found, but exactly what went wrong and whether the detections are accurate.

### API Usage with Shared Secret Authentication

When `SHARED_SECRET` is configured, you can access the API endpoints programmatically for machine-to-machine communication:

#### Uploading Reports via API

```bash
# Using X-API-Key header (case-insensitive)
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/upload-report \
  -H "X-API-Key: your-shared-secret-here" \
  -F "file=@your-report.jsonl"

# Alternative case variations (all work the same)
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/upload-report \
  -H "x-api-key: your-shared-secret-here" \
  -F "file=@your-report.jsonl"

curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/upload-report \
  -H "X-Api-Key: your-shared-secret-here" \
  -F "file=@your-report.jsonl"
```

#### Listing Reports via API

```bash
# Get list of all reports
curl -H "X-API-Key: your-shared-secret-here" \
  http://localhost:3000/api/reports

# Get specific report content
curl -H "X-API-Key: your-shared-secret-here" \
  "http://localhost:3000/api/garak-report?filename=your-report.jsonl"
```

#### Available API Endpoints

- `POST /api/upload-report` - Upload new Garak report files
- `GET /api/reports` - List all available reports
- `GET /api/garak-report` - Get specific report content
- `GET /api/garak-report-metadata` - Get report metadata
- `GET /api/garak-report-attempts` - Get report attempts data
- `GET /api/folders` - List folder structure

**Note**: All API endpoints support shared secret authentication when `SHARED_SECRET` is configured. The `X-API-Key` header name is case-insensitive (e.g., `X-API-Key`, `x-api-key`, `X-Api-Key` all work). If shared secret authentication is not configured, the API will fall back to OIDC authentication or no authentication (depending on your `OIDC_ENABLED` setting).

## Troubleshooting

### Application Won't Start

#### Error: "OIDC is enabled but required environment variables are missing"

**Cause**: You have `OIDC_ENABLED=true` but some required variables are not set.

**Solution**: The error message will list which variables are missing. You need to either:

1. **Set all required variables** (when using OIDC):
   ```bash
   OIDC_ENABLED=true
   OIDC_ISSUER=https://your-provider.com
   OIDC_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id
   OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret
   NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
   NEXTAUTH_SECRET=your-secret-key
   ```

2. **Disable OIDC** (for local development without authentication):
   ```bash
   OIDC_ENABLED=false
   ```

#### Report Directory Error

**Error**: "Report directory does not exist"

**Cause**: The `REPORT_DIR` path doesn't exist or isn't accessible.

**Solution**:
```bash
# Create the directory
mkdir -p ./data

# Or specify an existing directory in .env
REPORT_DIR=/path/to/existing/directory
```

**Note**: If `REPORT_DIR` is not set, it defaults to `./data` and will be created automatically.

### Authentication Issues

#### Too Many Redirects

**Cause**: This usually happens when OIDC is enabled but environment variables are incomplete or incorrect.

**Solution**: 
1. Check that all required OIDC variables are set correctly
2. Verify your OIDC provider configuration (client ID, secret, redirect URIs)
3. Ensure `NEXTAUTH_URL` matches your application's URL
4. For troubleshooting, try setting `OIDC_DEBUG=true` to see detailed logs
5. As a last resort, temporarily disable OIDC: `OIDC_ENABLED=false`

#### Session/Cookie Issues

**Problem**: Can't stay logged in or session expires immediately.

**Solution**:
1. Ensure `NEXTAUTH_SECRET` is set to a strong, random value (at least 32 characters)
2. Verify `NEXTAUTH_URL` matches the URL you're accessing the app from
3. In production, ensure you're using HTTPS
4. Check that cookies are enabled in your browser

### Docker Issues

#### Port Already in Use

**Error**: "Port 3000 is already in use"

**Solution**:
```bash
# Stop the existing container
docker stop garak-repo

# Or use a different port
docker run -p 8080:3000 ...
```

#### Volume Mount Issues

**Error**: "Permission denied" when mounting report directory

**Solution**:
```bash
# Ensure the host directory has proper permissions
chmod 755 /path/to/reports

# Or run with appropriate user permissions
docker run --user $(id -u):$(id -g) ...
```

### Development Server Issues

#### Changes Not Reflecting

**Problem**: Code or environment variable changes don't take effect.

**Solution**:
1. **Environment variables**: Always restart the dev server after changing `.env`
   ```bash
   # Stop the server (Ctrl+C) then restart
   npm run dev
   ```

2. **Code changes**: Clear Next.js cache if hot reload isn't working:
   ```bash
   rm -rf .next
   npm run dev
   ```

#### Build Errors After Updates

**Problem**: Errors after pulling new code or updating dependencies.

**Solution**:
```bash
# Clean install
rm -rf node_modules .next
npm install
npm run dev
```

### Getting Help

If you continue to experience issues:

1. **Check the logs**: Look for error messages in the console output
2. **Verify configuration**: Compare your `.env` with `example.env`
3. **Enable debug mode**: Set `OIDC_DEBUG=true` for OIDC issues
4. **Check documentation**: See [OIDC_SETUP.md](OIDC_SETUP.md) for detailed OIDC configuration
5. **Report issues**: Open an issue on GitHub with:
   - Error messages (sanitize sensitive data)
   - Your configuration (without secrets)
   - Steps to reproduce
